# Credit-Card-Fraud-Detection
To Predict fraudulent credit card transactions with the help of machine learning models. Here we will analyse customer- level data that has been collected during the research collaboration of Worldwide and Machine Learning Group.
Business Problem:
For many banks, retaining high profitable customers is the number one business goal. Banking fraud, however, poses a significant threat to this goal for different banks. In terms of substantial financial losses, trust and credibility, this is a concerning issue to both banks and customers alike.It has been estimated by Nilson Report that by 2020, banking frauds has accounted for $30 billion worldwide. With the rise in digital payment channels, the number of fraudulent transactions is also increasing in new and different ways.
In the banking industry, credit card fraud detection using machine learning is not only a trend but a necessity for them to put proactive monitoring and fraud prevention mechanisms in place. Machine learning is helping these institutions to reduce time-consuming manual reviews, costly chargebacks and fees as well as denials of legitimate transactions.
Understanding the Problem statement and defining it:
Credit card fraud is any dishonest act or behaviour to obtain information without proper authorisation from the account holder for financial gain. Among different ways of committing frauds, skimming is the most common one, which is a way of duplicating information that is located on the magnetic strip of the card. Apart from this, the other ways are as follows:
->Manipulation/alteration of genuine cards ->Creation of counterfeit cards ->Stealing/loss of credit cards ->Fraudulent telemarketing
